=head1 NAME

kadeploy - deploys an environment on the given nodes.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<kadeploy>  B<-e|--environment> environment_name [B<-l> username]  B<-p|--partition> partition [B<-m|--machine> hostname] [B<-f> nodefile] [B<-v|--verbose>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This command deploys the specified environment on a specific parition of the target nodes. When successfully over, the nodes are available under the new and freshly installed environment.

Kadeploy can deploy another user's environment.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-e|--environment> environment_name

Specifies the name of the environment to deploy.

=item B<-l> username

Specifies the environment's owner, by defaut the user issuing kadeploy command.

=item B<-p|--partition> partition

Specifies the partition to use for deployment on the target nodes.

=item B<-m|--machine> hostname

Specifies a target host. This option can be used more than once to specify several target hosts.

=item B<-f> nodefile

Specifies a file containing a set of target nodes.

=item B<-v, --verbose>

verbose mode.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLE

Deploys the debian4all environment on partition sda3 of node7:

=over

=item kadeploy -e debian4all -p sda3 -m node7

=back

Deploys the debian4jul environment user jleduc on partition sda3 of a set of nodes reserved with OAR in the deploy queue:

=over

=item kadeploy -e debian4jul -l jleduc -p sda3 -f $OAR_NODEFILE

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

kaenvironments(1), karecordenv(1)

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

This software is licensed under the GNU Library General Public License. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
