=head1 NAME

deploy.conf - kadeploy configuration file.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This file presents all the variables the user must defined in order to be able to use the deployment system. It is divided into several sections. A very short description is available  for  each  variable  and often example values are given in commentary.

=head1 NODES PROPERTIES

This section is dedicated to the cluster specifics optimizations, all the timeouts are set there, and since they depend of hardware configuration, they are difficult to guess. Kadeploy incorporates default values that work on poorly tuned cluster nodes but, volontary, not with default BIOS values and its poor performances. This is to force sysadmin to think about their default setup.

=over

=item B<default_target_partition> sda3

Default target partition on the nodes if no '-p' is passed to kadeploy.

=item B<first_check_timeout> 210

Timeout before ordering a hard reboot, after a soft one at the beginning if the node is still not booted on the deployment kernel.

=item B<last_check_timeout> 250

Timout for the last check, when rebooting the nodes on the deployed system: after that time, all the node that are not rebooted on the deployed environment are considered as failed and the deployment ends.

=item B<deployment_validity_timeout> 700

Deployment timeout upper time boundary for a deployment to remain valid. Every longer deployment is considered as a failed one. This allows kadeploy to clean its database by itself.

=item B<ext2_options> -b 4096 -O sparse_super,filetype,resize_inode,dir_index

Options passed to mkfs when formatting a kadeploy target partition which has an ext2 filesystem, this allows to be five times faster than default mkfs values.

=item B<ext2_options> -b 4096 -O sparse_super,filetype,resize_inode,dir_index

Options passed to mkfs when formatting a kadeploy target partition which has an ext3 filesystem, this allows to be five times faster than default mkfs values.

=back

=head1 NMAP CONFIGURATION

Nmap is used by kadeploy to test the nodes'state.

=over

=item B<enable_nmap> 1

1 enables nmap, 0 disables it.

=item B<nmap_cmd> /usr/bin/nmap

nmap command on your deployment server.

=back

=head1 PARALLEL COMMANDS

This section describes tuning for parrallel commands launched by kadeploy.

=over

=item B<deploy_rcmd> rsh -l root

Command launcher for the deployment kernel.

=item B<prod_rcmd> ssh -l root

Command launcher for the deployed environment (mainly to initiate reboots since B<deploy_user> should be authorized to log as root on all the deployed system on the nodes).

=item B<launcher_window_size> 25

Number of parrallel remote commands issued from the server during a single deployment. A smaller size mmeans more concurency between deployments. Kadeploy consumes up to 2 * min (launcher_window_size, number_of_implied_nodes) + 3 ports during a single deployment, if you multiply this by the number of maximum concurrent deployments on your system, you should not be able to reach 512. A value of 25 seems reasonable, since it allows 10 concurrents deployments at any time on the cluster.

=back

=head1 DATABASE ACCESS

This section specifies database acces for kadeploy.

=over

=item B<deploy_db_host> server.domainname

Database server name or IP.

=item B<deploy_db_name> deploy

Database name on the mysql server hosting kadeploy's tables.

=item B<deploy_db_login> deploy

Login for data rw acces from the deployment server, ie the server kadeploy is installed on, on the database server.

=item B<deploy_db_psswd> deploy

Password associated to the previous login.

=back

=head1 PREINSTALL POSTINSTALL

This section deals with deployment specific operations: preinstall and postinstall. The preinstall is specific to a cluster: it deals with harddisk preparation before initiating the deployment procedure. It consits of a tgz archive containing a script and everything it requires to prepare the disk (load disk drivers, manage partitions creation, format common partitions). Since it is specific to a site, it is the role of the sysadmin to manage it. At the other end of the deployment, the postinstall is specific to the deployed environment, it is up to the environments' maintainers to take care of those.

=over

=item B<pre_install_archive> /usr/local/share/kadeploy/preinstall.tgz

Common preinstall for the all the nodes of the cluster kadeploy should take care of.

=item B<pre_install_script> init.ash

Relative path of the preintall script from the preinstall root directory.

=item B<pre_install_script_timeout> 50

Timeout for preinstall execution in seconds, this is the maximum time allowed for the preinstall execution on 1 node, timeout nodes are discarted from the rest of the deployment process.

=item B<post_install_script> traitement.ash

Relative path of the postinstall script from the postinstall root directory.

=back

=head1 PXE CONFIGURATION

This sections details the TFTP part of kadeploy that allows it to control the way the nodes are booting.

=over

=item B<kernel_param> console=tty0 console=ttyS0,38400n8

Kernel parameters passed to the deployment kernel: those allow to redirect console so a serial port linked to kvm capabilities.

=item B<use_nogrub> 1

By default 0, this allows to use grub as a remote bootloader. This option is usefull if your system cannot deal with grub remote execution (Itanium nodes, some nodes with SCSI harddrives...). If enabled, you won't be able to boot freeBSD environements (or any environment based on dd images).

=item B<tftp_repository> /var/lib/tftpboot/PXEClient/

Specify the tftp repository for PXE clients as defined by your cluster DHCP server.

=item B<pxe_rep> pxelinux.cfg/

Relative path from the B<tftp_repository>, where each node's PXE boot files are stored. Should be owned by B<deploy_user>.

=item B<tftp_relative_path> images_grub

Relative path from the B<tftp_repository>, where kadeploy will put environments' specific files required to reboot the nodes on the target environment. Should be owned by B<deploy_user>.

=back

=head1 LABEL

This sections details the use of kadeploy labels to control the way the nodes are booting.

=over

=item label_deploy = duke-vmlinuz.x86_64:duke-initrd.x86_64 ETH_DRV=tg3 ETH_DEV=eth0 console=tty0 console=ttyS0,38400n8 ramdisk_size=40000

This label tells kadeploy to boot duke-vmlinuz.x86_64 kernel with duke-initrd.x86_64 passing the following arguments: ethernet driver is tg3, using the node's eth0 interface.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

deploy_cmd.conf(1)

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

This software is licensed under the GNU Library General Public License. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
