=head1 NAME

duke-vmlinuz - kadeploy deployment kernel.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This kernel comes with an associated initrd file: duke-intrd. It should be booted through PXE on the nodes at the begining of every deployment to allow kadeploy to initiate and then follow the deployment process. 

=head1 LAUNCH CONFIGURATION

Launching configuration is done in the /etc/kadeploy/deploy_cmd.conf file in the B<deployboot> lines. Please refer to the deploy_cmd.conf man page. 

=head1 CUSTOM KERNEL PARAMETERS

The idea behind the kernel parameters is to give all the information necessary to configure one network interface per node.

=over

=item B<ETH_DRV>=kernel module

Name of the kernel driver to load to support network adapter on the node (tg3, e1000....).

=item B<ETH_DEV>=device name

Name of the interface to use, by default B<eth0>. This is in case there are multiple interfaces on the node using the same network driver. In that case, if it is not eth0, you have to specify the right name.

=item B<NETMASK>=network_netmask B<IPADDR>=ip_adress B<BROADCAST>=broadcast_address

This is for network configuration, if not using DHCP. By default, all the network configuration is made with DHCP, but you can overwrite it with those parameters. This can be usefull for tests or to delegate the deployment of the nodes to another kadeploy server. Broadcast address has a I<255.255.255.255> default value and the defautl netmask is I<255.255.255.0>.

=back

=head1 STANDARD KERNEL PARAMETERS

All the standards linux kernel parameters are available, but the ones described in this section are important.

=over

=item B<console=tty0 console=ttyS0,38400n8>

This part is to configure the console redirection according to your dedicated hardware. Please refer to your hardware specifications and linux documentation to determine the suitable syntax to your needs.

=item B<ramdisk_size=50000>

This is to determine the size of the ramdisks used during the deployment process by the kernel. For kadeploy 2.1.5 this should be 50000 Mo.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

Those examples could be used in the labels of the /etc/kadeploy/deploy.conf file.

=over

=item B<duke-vmlinuz:duke-initrd ETH_DRV=tg3 ETH_DEV=eth1 console=tty0 console=ttyS0,38400n8 ramdisk_size=50000>

This configuration tells the deployment kernel to use I<eth1> of the hardware controled by the I<tg3> linux driver, with a I<50000> Mb ramdisk and a console written on both the remote attached screen and duplicated on the first external rs232 connector (I<ttyS0> in the case of our system) at I<38400> bauds, since it is attached to a remote kvm (available through kaconsole).

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<deploy_cmd.conf(1)>, L<deploy.conf(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

This software is licensed under the GNU Library General Public License. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
