@table @asis
@item 2.1.5
@itemize @bullet
@item
deployment of more than 120 nodes works now: no more restrictions on the
number of nodes (tested on GriD eXplorer on a full 330 nodes deployment
several times), more reliable deployments

@item
taktuk is not used anymore => every parallel command is issued internally
using the same launcher for all apps (kadeploy, kareboot...) corrects many
bugs (blocked deployments, all or nothing deployments,...).

@item
support for multiple architecture environments on the same cluster: you can
deploy x86_64 nodes or x86 nodes from a x86/x86_64 server for example.

@item
verbose mode more verbose, and standard is far less verbose than before.

@item
new installation method, man pages are now pods.

@item
addons: karemote and kaaddkeys kaaddkeys is a model for developing addons:
partly user mode (to read user's files), partly run as deploy user.

@item
less dependencies for installation, less configuration variables.
@end itemize

@item 2.1.2
@itemize @bullet
@item
kaenvironments (environment name by user).

@item
kaenvironments (by node)

@item
new partitioning format (@file{/etc/kadeploy/clusterpartition.conf} &&
@file{/etc/kadeploy/clustenodes.conf}).

@item
new parallel command launcher (internal).

@item
kasetup to help installing and configuring kadeploy.

@item
fdisk scripting (kasetup).

@item
katftp removed (replaced by kasetup).

@item
kadelnode kaaddnode remove (replaced by kasetup).

@item
kasudowrapper security enhancement.

@item
optsupport deactivated.
@end itemize

@item 2.1.1
@itemize @bullet
@item
sudowrapper.

@item
kaenvironment and karecordenv improved.

@item
katftp (fast installation).

@item
kadatabase (fast installation).

@item
optimisation support.

@item
Added Changelog files.

@item
Added kernel and initrd for 64 bit opteron, Sata support.
@end itemize

@item 2.1
@itemize @bullet
@item
autoconf.

@item
dd deploy method for chainloaded OS.
@end itemize

@item 2
@itemize @bullet
@item
initial release.
@end itemize
@end table
