=head1 NAME

kadeploy - deploys an environment on the given nodes.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<kadeploy>  B<-e|--environment> environment_name [B<-l> username] [B<-d|--device> device] [B<-p|--partition> partition] [B<-m|--machine> hostname] [B<-f> nodefile] [B<-dl|--debug_level> debug_level] [B<-dl|--debug_level> debug_level] [B<-u|--use_prod_env>] [B<-r|--reformat_tmp>] [B<-fkr|--fast_kernel_reboot>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This command deploys the specified environment on a specific parition of the target nodes. When successfully over, the nodes are available under the new and freshly installed environment.

Kadeploy can deploy another user's environment.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-e|--environment> environment_name

Specifies the name of the environment to deploy.

=item B<-l> username

Specifies the environment's owner, by defaut the user issuing kadeploy command.

=item B<-d|--device> device

Specifies the device to use for deployment on the target nodes.

=item B<-p|--partition> partition

Specifies the partition to use for deployment on the target nodes.

=item B<-m|--machine> hostname

Specifies a target host. This option can be used more than once to specify several target hosts.

=item B<-f> nodefile

Specifies a file containing a set of target nodes.

=item B<-dl|--debug_level> debug_level

Specifies the verbosity's level. The values are : 4 (only result), 3 (main steps of the deployement), 2 (normal verbosity), 1 (advanced verbosity), 0 (extreme verbosity).

=item B<-r|--reformat_tmp>

Forces the formatting of the /tmp partition. By default, this step is avoided.

=item B<-u|--use_prod_env>

Performs the deployment with the production environment. This method avoid the first reboot on the deployment environment.

=item B<-fkr|--fast_kernel_reboot>

Uses the optimized method to reboot the nodes after the copy of the environment. Avoid a hard reboot. This option only works with Linux based environments.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLE

=over

=item kadeploy -e debian4all -d sda -p 3 -m node7 -u

Deploys the debian4all environment on partition /dev/sda3 of node7 and uses the production environment to perform the deployment.

=item kadeploy -e debian4jul -l jleduc -d cciss/c0d0 -p p2 -f $OAR_NODEFILE

Deploys the debian4jul environment user jleduc on partition /dev/cciss/c0d0p2  of a set of nodes reserved with OAR in the deploy queue.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<kaenvironments(1)>, L<karecordenv(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

This software is licensed under the GNU Library General Public License. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
