=head1 NAME

deploy_cluster.conf - kadeploy cluster configuration file.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This I<optional> file associates the nodes to configured clusters, if it B<does not exist> the default configuration files, B<deploy.conf> and B<deploy_cmd.conf> will be used.

The syntax is: I<host_name> I<cluster_name>

=head1 CLUSTER_NAME VALUE

It is a directive to define the 2 main kadeploy configuration files: B<deploy.conf> and B<deploy_cmd.conf> that should be used for the listed nodes. It is an optional directive for each node: if not listed, the node will be associated to the default cluster, using B<deploy.conf> and B<deploy_cmd.conf>, if I<clster_name> is specified for a node, the associated configuration files should be B<deploy-CLUSTER_NAME.conf> and B<deploy_cmd-CLUSTER_NAME.conf>, located in the B</etc/kadeploy/> directory. Those additional files should follow the syntax rules defined in the corresponding man pages. For more information, please refer to the dedicated man page.
For example:
 cls1.localdomain	cluster1
 cls2.localdomain	cluster2

Here I<cls1.localdomain> configurations files are B<deploy-cluster1.conf> and B<deploy_cmd-cluster1.conf> while I<cls2.localdomain> configuration files are B<deploy-cluster2.conf> and B<deploy_cmd-cluster2.conf>, the nodes not listed here use B<deploy.conf> and B<deploy_cmd.conf>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<deploy.conf(1)>, L<deploy_cmd.conf(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

This software is licensed under the GNU Library General Public License. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
