@table @asis
@item 2.1.6
@itemize @bullet
@item
kadeploy is multicluster: possibility to define several @file{deploy.conf}
configuration files 1 per cluster. This new possibility allows to use kadeploy
on 2 clusters of the same site having different default partition, different
default kernel parameters to pass, but also different timings for boot time,
or even different databases (if environments for one cluster cannot be
deployed on the other one).
@item
custom parameters can be passed with kareboot to the deployed nodes.
@end itemize

@item 2.1.5
@itemize @bullet
@item
deployment of more than 120 nodes works now: no more restrictions on the
number of nodes (tested on GriD eXplorer on a full 330 nodes deployment
several times), more reliable deployments

@item
taktuk is not used anymore => every parallel command is issued internally
using the same launcher for all apps (kadeploy, kareboot...) corrects many
bugs (blocked deployments, all or nothing deployments,...).

@item
support for multiple architecture environments on the same cluster: you can
deploy x86_64 nodes or x86 nodes from a x86/x86_64 server for example.

@item
verbose mode more verbose, and standard is far less verbose than before.

@item
new installation method, man pages are now pods.

@item
addons: karemote and kaaddkeys kaaddkeys is a model for developing addons:
partly user mode (to read user's files), partly run as deploy user.

@item
less dependencies for installation, less configuration variables.
@end itemize

@item 2.1.2
@itemize @bullet
@item
kaenvironments (environment name by user).

@item
kaenvironments (by node)

@item
new partitioning format (@file{/etc/kadeploy/clusterpartition.conf} &&
@file{/etc/kadeploy/clustenodes.conf}).

@item
new parallel command launcher (internal).

@item
kasetup to help installing and configuring kadeploy.

@item
fdisk scripting (kasetup).

@item
katftp removed (replaced by kasetup).

@item
kadelnode kaaddnode remove (replaced by kasetup).

@item
kasudowrapper security enhancement.

@item
optsupport deactivated.
@end itemize

@item 2.1.1
@itemize @bullet
@item
sudowrapper.

@item
kaenvironment and karecordenv improved.

@item
katftp (fast installation).

@item
kadatabase (fast installation).

@item
optimisation support.

@item
Added Changelog files.

@item
Added kernel and initrd for 64 bit opteron, Sata support.
@end itemize

@item 2.1
@itemize @bullet
@item
autoconf.

@item
dd deploy method for chainloaded OS.
@end itemize

@item 2
@itemize @bullet
@item
initial release.
@end itemize
@end table
