=head1 NAME

kareboot - reboot a set of nodes.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<kareboot>  [[B<-n|--noreboot>] | [B<-s|--soft>] | [B<-h|--hard>] | [B<-d|--deploy>]] [[B<-e|--environment> environment_name] | [B<-p|--partition> partition]]  [B<-m|--machine> hostname] [B<-f> nodefile] [B<-v|--verbose>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

kareboot can execute software or hardware reboots on given nodes. It can execute five types of query : no reboot, simple reboot, deploy reboot, environment reboot and partition reboot. For all of them, the user can specify one or several hosts.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-n|--noreboot>

Setup the next reboot for the target nodes without rebooting them.

=item B<-s|--soft>

Tries a soft reboot first, and then a hard reboot.

=item B<-h|--hard>

Hardware reboot only.

=item B<-d|--deploy>

Specify to reboot on the deployment kernel

=item B<-e|--environment> environment_name

Specifies the environment the target nodes should reboot on.

=item B<-p|--partition> partition

Specifies the partition the target nodes should reboot on.

=item B<-m|--machine> hostname

Specifies a target host. This option can be used more than once to specify several target hosts.

=item B<-f> nodefile

Specifies a file containing a set of target nodes.

=item B<-v, --verbose>

verbose mode.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLE

=over

=item kareboot -s -m node7

Simply reboot node7.

=item kareboot -e debian4all -m node6 -m node7

Reboot node6 and node7 on the first partition where the environement debian4all was successfully deployed.

=item kareboot -s -p sda3 -m node3

Reboot node3 on the environment deployed on partition sda3.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

kaenvironments(1), karecordenv(1), kadeploy(1)

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

This software is licensed under the GNU Library General Public License. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
